Initial sink documentation of Ruter. (#12)
TromsFylkestrafikk/ragnarok-ruter: SINK.md

# Sink Ruter

This contains transaction data for the old 'Troms Billett' app

> develped by Ruter as part of the now dead KK 1.0 collaboration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
develped by Ruter as part of the now dead KK (Kollektivkameratene) 1.0 collaboration.
```

> The transaction in this app stood for the majority of our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transactions in this app stood for the majority of our
```

Author: I think plural is correct here. "The app" as a concept was generating numerous transactions …

Reviewer: I suggested plural, so we should commit that change if we think it is correct :)

Author: Christ almighty … sorry 'bout that. Fixing now …

ticketing/product income in the period it was live.

## Data

> The data set primarly consist of purchases from the old 'Troms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dataset primarly consist of purchases from the old 'Troms
```

> Billett' app (terminated in september, 2024) and with it all possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Billett' app (terminated in September 2024) and with it all possible
```

> meta data related to phone, app, product and its transactions. This is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metadata related to phone, app, product and its transactions. This is
```

Author: Fixed.

located in the `ruter_transactions` table.

As it is possible to buy several tickets in one transaction, an
additional table `ruter_passengers` contains information about all

> passengers and the product they has attached to the given purchase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
passengers and the products that are connected to the given purchase.
```

Historically this data set has been unstable and prone to
changes/errors and unannounced updates.

> Another thing to notice is the user identifier. There is no such. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no user identifier. The
```

only way to track users is by app instance name, which changes every

> time the app is installed.

Reviewer: How about when the app was updated? We should document that

Author: It's sort of covered by
> and with it all possible metadata related to phone, app …

Author: But fixed with an additional 'app, app version, …'

## Source

> Ruter was the main motivator for the kollektivkameratene 1.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ruter was the main motivator for the KK 1.0
```

Author: Fixed

> collaboration, and Troms was for many years the sole PTA using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
collaboration, and Troms was for many years the sole Public Transport Authority (PTA) using the
```

Author: Fixed.

platform Ruter developed as part of KK 1.0.

## Usage

> This data can be used to identify mobile platform among our user base

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This data can be used to explore usage of the mobile platform among our user base
```

and identify big spenders. It can also be used to detect/point out

> time/periods with outage to give us an estimate of lost income. As
> this is the major source of income for Troms' part the business value
> is obvious.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time/periods with outage to give us an estimate of lost income. This is a 
major source of income for Troms. Therefore, it has a large business value.
```

Author: This documentation will quickly become 'in the past', so the wording is written in past sense as well. Otherwise, suggestions applied.
